I last professionally coded about 10 years back in 2011, when I used to work for a leading investment bank. This was back when I used to be the delivery lead for the FX Options Platform for the bank.

My programming career started in the late 90's, with VB6 , Java moving on to Dot Net - C#. On the journey, I have also professionally developed software using JavaScript, JSP, ASP, ASP.Net, Java, Oracle, SQL Server and also VBA.
I started my career when the default was a full stack developer, i.e. you talked to the users, wrote down the requirements, architected and designed it,  developed it, tested it, deployed it and then supported it post delivery. This included the entire stack - so the front end, the back end, the database and in some instances you were responsible for the hardware infrastructure as well. 

Since I have moved to management, I have struggled to take dedicated time out to cut software. The 100DaysCodeChallenge is an opportunity i am taking to get back to what i am intensely passionate about - software development or cutting code. For me its pure magic when I see the software I have developed being used by clients. I want to get closer to that magic.

Rules that i will follow during the 100DaysCodeChallenge are simple:
1) I will write code for atleast 1 hour daily
2) The code will be for an actual project / product, i.e. not for attending training or reading blogs or listening to podcasts.
3) This will be done during my personal time.

Languages - I plan to use Dart for my coding and git as the repository.
All my projects will be public and can be seen at : https://github.com/bit00?tab=repositories
I will maintain a journal about my progress at : https://github.com/bit00/100DaysOfCode
I will tweet dalily about my progress, and if you are interested you can follow me - @akbrijesh

I am super excited to take on this challenge. Its going to be tough to persist with all the 100 days as life and work continue to throw curved balls at you. One never knows what one will learn during the challenge, unless you give it a shot. So here goes my try!

If you would like to know more about the 100DaysCodeChallenge and would like to take one up yourself, then you can find more details about it here : https://www.100daysofcode.com/